# DU Data Analyis Bootcamp Unit 4 Homework: Pandas, PyCitySchools

PyCitySchools takes the data in schools_complete.csv and students_complete.csv, merges it together and performs analysis.

Analysis includes:

## District Summary

Key metrics produced:
* Total number of unique schools

* Total students

* Total budget

* Average math score

* Average reading score

* % passing math (the percentage of students who passed math)

* % passing reading (the percentage of students who passed reading)

* % overall passing (the percentage of students who passed math AND reading)

## School Summary

Key metrics produced:

* School name

* School type

* Total students

* Total school budget

* Per student budget

* Average math score

* Average reading score

* % passing math (the percentage of students who passed math)

* % passing reading (the percentage of students who passed reading)

* % overall passing (the percentage of students who passed math AND reading)


## Highest-Performing Schools (by % Overall Passing)
Top 5 schools by % Overall Passing in descending order

## Lowest-Performing Schools (by % Overall Passing)
Bottom 5 schools by % Overall Passing in ascending order

## Math Scores by Grade
Average math score for each grade level (9th, 10th, 11th, 12th) at each school.

## Reading Scores by Grade
Average reading score for each grade level (9th, 10th, 11th, 12th) at each school.

## Scores by School Spending
School performance (average math score, average reading score, % passing math, %passing reading and % overall passing) for spending ranges (per student): <$585, $585-630, $630-645, $645-680

## Scores by School Size
School performance (average math score, average reading score, % passing math, %passing reading and % overall passing) for school population size ranges: Small (<1000), Medium (1000-2000), Large (2000-5000)

## Scores by School Type
School performance (average math score, average reading score, % passing math, %passing reading and % overall passing) for school types: District, Charter


## Conclusions

The following conclustions can be drawn from the analysis:

* Spending more per student does not increase student performance. In fact, it seems to have the inverse effect.

* Students in large schools perform poorly compared to students in small and medium schools. Students in small and medium schools perform approximately equally.

* Students in charter schools seem to perform better than students in district schools. Although charter schools tend to be small or medium and district schools tend to be large so this likely more a factor of size.

Data files and exercise:
Data generated by Mockaroo, LLC, (2022). Realistic Data Generator. Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.
